[Music]
oh
no what do I do what do I do what do I
do while this is all totally
understandable it's possible that our
friend here can still sell this
situation but he needs to get through
step one as quickly as possible and get
right to step two shut down and unplug
all the things assuming you haven't
flooded the entire room all you got to
do is flip the switch on the back of the
power supply or rip out the power cord
if there's any liquid near your AC power
though there could be some risk of
electric shock so you'll want to head to
your breaker panel and turn things off
there instead just be quick about it
with that out of the way now it's time
to prep our operating table and our
tools there's no job too messy for our
new KN to Edition LTT screwdriver and we
can get those hard to- reach screws with
our new shaft extension LTT sore.com and
we've got everything else that we're
going to need laid out here before we
use any of that stuff though there's a
couple more safety measures that we need
to take first we need to get our power
supply unplugged from any other
sensitive components in the system
remember that the capacitors in the
power supply can still hold a charge
even when it's not plugged into the wall
and it is imperative that no power is
running through any of your components
because it's not the liquid that kills
your electronics it's the stuff
dissolved in the liquid that makes it
conductive and can cause a short circuit
or in the long term can cause corrosion
for that reason it's also imperative
that I get to the seos battery on the
motherboard as quickly as possible oh oh
oh
oh in case everyone was thinking oh they
faked
it hey there little buddy please don't
power anything okay okay depending on
your cable management you might have
some difficulty removing connectors from
the motherboard side of your system I
actually couldn't get at the 8 Pin CPU
connectors because of this AIO liquid
cooler and if that's the case you'll be
happy that you have a modular power
supply in this case it's actually
corsair's side modular one that made
this super convenient to disconnect
let's unplug this drivew in here this
looks an awful lot like a crime scene
doesn't it and believe it or not the
similarities are more than just cosmetic
because now that we've taken care of any
immediate threat it's time for us to
slow down to a more methodical Pace
while also taking a moment to
acknowledge our sponsor for this video
origin PC who bravely offered up one of
their custom gaming PCs for our little
science
[Music]
experiment nothing that you've seen so
far nothing you're about to see is
simulated we glammed up the intro a
little bit obviously but we really did
dump a full can of Coke into here not
because we support the senseless
destruction of computer hardware but
because we are optimistic that we can at
least get most of this back to origin in
working order and learn a few things and
maybe show you guys a few tricks along
the way these guys were especially
concerned about the Corsair IQ link
components IQ link allows up to 14
devices like RGB F coolers and pumps to
send power and data through a single
cable to a system Hub simplifying your
wiring all that we need to know now is
whether it survived before we proceed
there are a couple of don'ts first you
need to take careful stock of the
situation and avoid any unnecessary
movement that could spread the spill
into difficult to clean areas see
depending on the orientation of your
components you could be dealing with
anything as small as little droplets
that got blasted Everywhere by a
spinning fan to a giant carbonated pool
on the back of your GPU that turns into
a waterfall pouring down the pcie slot
down your motherboard or tumbling
straight over the other side into your
power supply which brings us to don't
number two don't open a power supply
especially one that's full of Mountain
Dew number three is don't trust old
Forum myths so you can put away your bag
of rice and instead grab a box of shop
towels to get started I'm going to begin
with the GPU a because it's the most
valuable component in my system and
therefore the one that I'm most
concerned about and and B because being
oriented horizontally here it took the
brunt of the spill regular paper towels
will work for this in a pinch but
they're more prone to leaving behind
lint and other contaminants so if you
are using a paper based product just
ensure that you're using a dabbing
motion rather than a wiping motion this
particularly matters when you're wiping
a bare PCB where there's a chance that
as they disintegrate they can grab
surface mount components and carry them
away if you prefer and if you have the
budget for it microfiber cloths or
coffee filters are popular lintree
options that are frequently recommended
for this but I don't know about you
usually I'm just going for whatever is
the nearest thing and realistically our
priority at this stage is soaking up as
much of the spill as possible as opposed
to worrying about every little piece of
lint we're going to have links to all
the different sort of recommended
materials for this job in the video
description once you've shaken and
dabbed as much liquid as possible out of
each component you're goingon to want to
set it aside and move on to the next
some relatively okay demand handle this
GPU for example has very little exposed
PCB so just get everything you can off
of it shake it and put it down others
you're going to need to give them a
little bit more care for example on your
motherboard please don't start pawing at
your CPU socket trying to get the fail
out even if there is liquid between the
CPU and the pins oh and there is there
are other ways to remove that that don't
risk damaging The Fragile pins cuz I
guarantee you put a paper towel or a
microfiber anywhere near those you will
bend them and it is game
[Music]
over as for the power supply if there is
any chance that liquid got in there my
lawyers told me that I have to say buy a
new one $100 is a lot less than a trip
to the hospital or to the
cemetery but this is me and I'm willing
to take the risk so I do plan to take a
crack at this but later and with a
healthy dose of please please don't try
this at
home now that all the sensitive
components are out of here we can use a
wet microfiber cloth to wipe it down and
de stickify it but as clean as it might
look when we're done with that you must
resist the temptation to throw it back
together even if it looks good and even
if it does fire up it's probably a
ticking time bomb at this point and we
need to give it a proper cleaning cuz
the thing is the areas you can see are
not the places where the spill is going
to gather dry out and eventually cause
corrosion and getting into some of those
nooks and crannies like look at this dim
socket that's going to require some
disassembly of heat sinks back plates or
other accessories
and some liquid courage that wasn't that
far off at the beginning with my
Strat but also not alcohol yes just not
the kind you drink and not yet as crazy
as this is going to sound and look our
first cleaning pass is actually going to
be a rinse with good oldfashioned water
but you need to watch out because not
all water is created
equally
it's worth noting at this stage that
sometimes the thermal pads are going to
come away with your heat sinks in which
case no problem little dab right there
and these can probably be reused as for
the ones that stay behind on the
motherboard I would get those off as
best you can and then put them in a safe
place ideally back where they came off
of so that they a don't get lost and B
don't get dissolved we'll get to that in
a
moment
I guess we avoided the warranty of our
GPU as part of this process but
realistically that was when the can of
coke spilled over the back of it not
when we removed that warranty void if
removed sticker beautiful in the case of
the GPU leaving the pads on the cooler
isn't really an option because the
cooler itself needs to be cleaned so
taking pictures is your
[Music]
friend tap water varies wildly depending
depend on where you live and it can be
full of impurities including ions of
calcium magnesium and so much more that
might be left behind as the water dries
so we are generally better off avoiding
the tap deionized water is a much better
option having passed through an ion
exchange System trading most of those
random ions for additional hydrogen and
hydroxide which team up to make us more
of that sweet pure H2O the removal of
those charged ions leaves the ionized
water unable to conduct elect
electricity which is another nice bonus
but it can still have Organics or other
uncharged impurities if you're worried
about those a reverse osmosis process
might be more suitable for your needs
the ionized water is commonly used by
PCB manufacturers to clean circuit
boards during production distilled water
meanwhile which is what we have here is
the product of a completely different
process the water is heated to Boiling
and vaporizes the impurities remain in
the original container while the water
vapor is collected and condensed into
Pure Water free of any contaminants that
might be left behind when it dries it's
also free of any electrical conductivity
at least until it picks up ions from the
crap that you put in it which we're
about to do as you may know water is an
excellent solvent and we haven't allowed
our spill to dry yet so any contaminants
on our boards are likely to get picked
up and carried away with the water as we
rinse them we would recommend a bath
followed by a poure from a fresh bottle
this is going to be a little hard with
just two hands Jordan do you mind oh hey
that'll do we want to pay extra
attention to any contact pins like in
our memory slots pcie slots CPU
socket I'm having way too much fun right
now if a spill has started to dry and
leave residue some gentle attention with
a soft brush like a toothbrush will go a
long way uh warming up the water for
that matter also goes a long way in
breaking down those stubborn dried on
stains kind of feel like I'm in a
detergent commercial right
now anything with moving Parts can be a
little on the trickier side so fans
conventional hard drives Optical drives
for these ideally you're just going to
wipe off any surface spills just like we
did before little bit of alcohol can
help here but you're going to have to be
aware that some Plastics don't respond
well to alcohol and you're going to want
to try to avoid getting any fluid into
the bearings so that's uh back here
dang
[Music]
it on that note it's probably worth
noting that I would not recommend using
any sort of detergent if you can avoid
it it's going to leave behind a residue
and going to cause as much damage as it
potentially saves now that we've got all
of our spills rinsed away we could
probably just take all our components
leave them somewhere warm ideally with
some air flow to dry up
out but if we're impatient we can
accelerate the process with a second
rins this time with 99% isopropyl
alcohol which means it's disclaimer time
if you are going to do this make sure
that you are in a well ventilated space
away from any Flames or Sparks or Motors
and the smoking lamp is definitely out
alcohol is not only an excellent solvent
helping us to remove any nonwater
soluble contaminants it's also
hygroscopic which basically means it
loves water and it wants to hug it and
squeeze it and call it George that means
that it can pull any non-evaporated
water out of its little hiding spots by
reducing the surface tension then
because alcohol evaporates much more
quickly carry that water away allowing
you to put things back together in in as
little as I'd say about 6 hours in your
warm drying well ventilated spot to
accelerate this process even further
some pressurized air from a can or a
battery powered blower will help to push
the water and alcohol out of those tight
spaces and encourage it to evaporate it
can also help you do a sanity check on
your cleaning job if you're watching the
liquid disappear and seeing white or
gray residue Left Behind that's bad time
to start over now let's turn our
attention to the original power supply I
know I said already not to do this but
it's still possible origin is going to
be like no you can't even have that in
the video but come on guys how about a
watermark like one all over the screen
okay okay in a perfect world we would
discharge the power supply before doing
anything with it you can do this by like
shorting out the packs of
capacitors which need B thing but but
please don't uh you can also do this by
pressing the power button on your
computer we don't really have any of
those options so without opening it
because I still really really wouldn't
recommend that and don't want to show
you that uh we're just going to give it
a quick ISO bath anything that was going
to discharge is probably discharged that
fan I mean it might live you know even
with the isopropanol we're going to want
to leave that for a
while wait as I was putting so to dry I
realized something the coke is not
getting carried away by the isopropyl at
oh we might have to water bathe
it okay um that feels so much more wrong
for some reason can't put my finger on
why but the coke is definitely soluble
in the water hm I didn't even think of
that before we started is Coke isopropyl
soluble the answer is no now we throw it
back in the iso just to accelerate the
drying process then we hope for the
best oh I move once everything is dry I
would strongly recommend a test run on a
non-conductive Surface like a cardboard
box which of course we did but I didn't
want it spoiled for me so I'm here for
the Moment of Truth you guys
ready okay what are we looking at here
none of the RGB is lit up that's a
little scary this Fan's not working
these fans are not working
now I talked before about how moving
Parts can be very very difficult to
clean but that doesn't necessarily mean
that it won't boot up no signal that's
not good okay I was pretty confident
until now oh by the way if you notice
there's a power supply sitting here
we're taking our first crack with a
replacement power supply and all the
original cables we're not going to try
this until uh later oh I'm a little
stressed right now though might be the
GPU there's some work to do
to be clear I'm pretty sure these still
work and we're going to try and
resurrect them with the help of this
bonus IQ Link cable that we forgot to
put in when we were reassembling but
it's probably worth mentioning that
depending on the cost of the item you've
got to factor in if your time and
cleaning materials are worth what is in
most cases probably a $7 case fan or $25
optical drive I mean these aren't $7
case fans so we may want to tear them
down wash them rubricate and reassemble
them but your mileage may vary speaking
of mileage
I'm going to try replugging the GPU
cable from this side check the plugs see
if there was any melted connectors or
anything like that which we wouldn't be
blaming on the design in this case if it
was on the bench during this
troubleshooting I would have the
advantage of being able to quickly pop
things off and inspect a lot of the time
you can find any corrosion or any shoo
that's built up in connectors and Slots
um more easily when it's not in a case
but I wasn't here for that and I have
told the person who was here for that to
not tell me anything so I'm flying line
and curse you D6 if there's any error
that can't be explained through other
means it's either power supply or
Ram yeah but it's worth trying this will
tell us is it the GPU or is it the
slot we don't want it to be the slot
well depending on the cost of the item
we may want it to be the slot on the
motherboard compared to our GPU but from
a troubleshooting time standpoint it's
easier to swap a GPU it's kind of crazy
how clean the whole thing looks though
come on tell me something
oh no this still might not be game over
here time to go deeper now you're
probably thinking lus said Graphics what
are you doing pulling at the CPU but
here's the thing all your pcie and
memory endpoints make their way to the
CPU socket if there's anyoo or other
contaminants in it it's easy for it to
get in the way of these contacts which
can cause a slot to not work for example
I don't see any though there's a bent
pin I don't think it's bent enough to be
causing the problem but it's certainly
not helping so I'm going to poke
it well Jordan I hope whatever it was
that you were hoping to tell me about
this was not additional things other
than what we just found don't don't tell
me anything though guys guys we've got
this origin PC I got you maybe that was
it we could look up the diagam if it's
leaked or posted somewhere and kind of
see what those pins correspond to but
for our purposes all we really care
about is does this computer work now so
we're just going to see are we stuck on
7f
now are you K oh no we're not oh good oh
jeez the good news is this GPU might
still be good the bad news is that the
motherboard almost certainly isn't I'm
assuming you encountered something
similar while it was on the bench no oh
which doesn't necessarily mean that
Jordan did a bad job in everything
because he's you know clumsy or awful or
I am those things
or I'm just teasing it really doesn't
mean that sometimes these things can
work for a bit and then fail however it
is possible that Jordan made a mistake
so it's worth doing a little bit of
Investigation yes so when I had it on
the bench when I hit power I immediately
got stuff on screen uhuh like your
typical bios oh you've replaced the CPU
and all the things yeah and I'm like
okay good enough turn off cool so we got
farther than you've gotten
today all right I want to pull a button
cell maybe and like fully clear that
bios maybe yeah let's go I have New Hope
one quick troubleshooting step is just
to pull everything out of the
motherboard you never know when things
can be confused hey real troubleshooting
guys to everyone who complains we never
actually do Tech tips on this
channel I see you without changing
anything else yet we're going to try a
different slot for the GPU you whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa whoa are you rolling what
the hell just happened no
touching full touching wait what did
what did change this did I receed it
this time yes I rece the CPU I would
suggest let's go into the BIOS first and
make sure it's set properly I would
suggest let's go straight for the Hail
Mary Boom full complete Victory gpu's
going in now let's go it's last the
screen I got before nice all right I'm
caught up to Jordan one we never
considered yeah we never turned this on
before we dumped Coke in it did we
really not I mean it was running to show
the fans were on I mean s in PC right I
mean if it worked now then it probably
worked when they sent it to us I mean
I'm just saying you know I I might have
done some stuff to it but uh I'm like
hey maybe it was broken when I got here
ma Mafia tactics I mean his legs was
already broken huh I had to unplug that
PC connector in order to plug in the
other one so hold on one sec here we go
here we go here we go I'm confident I'm
confident want to miss it yeah woo
okay we probably cut a lot of it out but
um we've been sweating for a while here
okay we dumped a can of Coke in this
computer you gave it a bath twice then
you gave it a bath can you guys believe
after what you saw that anything came
out of it these are the real Tech tips
you guys we got you yay 32 gigs of RAM
both ssds detected wow who
doubted I saw you doubt before do you
doubt any longer well we haven't seen
Windows yet wait did we put the fans
back on in the wrong orientation that's
entirely possible balls oh no balls oh
balls whole Rad's got to come out really
cuz you can't get in here
right freaking a man there it is that is
awesome okay okay ah on the AIO there's
a USB connection that's presumably for
data and then there's two of these IQ
connectors yeah one of them needs to go
in and one of them needs to go to the
fan which is
[Music]
buried hey yeah okay everything's online
I'll be with you in a
moment it's not time to close it yet
though we've won but we haven't achieved
complete
Victory really please don't try this at
home for actual
reals there we go here we go here we go
here we go what are the Vegas odds on
this one give you
47% the real Moment of
Truth and she's back
on now look nothing about this video was
a recommend recomendation to pour soda
pop into your computer and even if you
spilled a fraction of what we did your
results could be completely different
there are a lot of variables at play the
one thing that we did really well though
is we acted fast and that's the most
important factor whether you spilled a
little bit or a lot of fluid is to get
it powered down and get the cleaning
process started right away of course
we're not 100% out of the woods yet I
think that until we actually run a game
you guys aren't going to be quite on
board with that this system is
fine all right lowkey 300 plus FPS no
problem this is it there's no denying we
did it you guys but just because it's
working today doesn't necessarily mean
that it'll work forever if there is
still some coke on any of the electronic
components there is a possibility that
it will eventually cause corrosion so if
we did a great job of cleaning it this
system could be a Workhorse for many
years to come but if we didn't it may
only be a temporary fix so with that in
mind it's very important that this
doesn't make you overconfident about the
sensitivity of your electronics
realistically speaking then origin PC
took a big gamble sponsoring this video
they've got an excellent warranty but it
doesn't cover things like dumping Cola
into your PC the good news is even when
you don't have warranty through them
anymore they do do lifetime tech support
so you can give them a call or email
them if you need help with something if
you guys enjoyed this video man when's
the last time we did something this
crazy that would be similar oh yeah go
watch the one where we used weird
AliExpress Cleaning Supplies on PCS that
was actually a lot of fun that is an
underwatched video it's really funny